# CSCI 265 Initial Team Charter

## Team name: Mapers

## Project/product name: Viu map upgrade

## Members and contact email

  -  Alex Thompson, alex.neil.thompson@gmail.com
  -  Bruce Fernandes, bruce2005.ind@gmail.com *Main contact*
  -  Gowan  Cathers, gowan.cathers@my.viu.ca
  -   Md Zahidur Rahman Nabil, zahidurrahmannabil@gmail.com
  -  Nguyen Du (MAX), nguyentdu.work@gmail.com
  -  Olaleye Victor, olaleyevictor51@gmail.com

## Project intro

The pain of a first year, figuring our routes and the sub par map given to us by VIU, why can we not map ourselves through the university so it gives us the most accessible. the fastest route and maybe even the most scenic route.

We plan to make a map of VIU with information on staircount, elevation and accessibility. We hope to start out with a 2-D map and transition to making a 3-D map with features of a searchbar to choose starting location and the destination. We hope to add a recentre option and an option to choose mode of transport, between walking, wheelchairs or bike.


## Team philosophy

We as a team wanted to help the people around us, making life a little easier or a bit more efficient. We wanted to make a service to help make your very day a bit easier, you might find a faster route than the one you take everyday or just a scenic path that you didn't even know existed.

By making a map to show elevation we can help people prepare for a daunting set of stairs or a great incline on a slope, people in wheelchairs can find the most accessible route to make life a little easier, because instead of exploring and reading signs everywhere they can simply check the website/app and it will map them to their destination with utmost ease. This will help all of us also, better our programming skills, our design skills and understanding and also help us with 3-D design which is a great niche to have.



## Team roles/responsibilities

We are working under a one-leader system with Bruce as the team lead. The conversations will be democratic, however, if a consensus cannot be reached, Bruce will make the final choice. It is to be a democratic autocracy.

Everyone is allowed to raise their concern and suggestions and is encouraged to speak up within group discussions and meetings. We have decided to meet in person on friday's before the lab class for an hour. 

The team would meet in a designated location set up by Bruce every Friday of the week, for at least an hour. The first few minutes of the meeting is to be spent discussing upcoming presentations and our past progress on the project. Then the rest would be spent discussing what is in the future of our project and what we need to complete along with catching up.

The roles will be listed as follows:

- Alex:
  * Programmer
  * Visual Effects support

- Bruce:
  * Doccumentation
  * Presentation 
 
 - Gowan:
   * Visual effects
   * Programmer
 
 - Max:
   * Programmer
   * Mathematician
 
 - Nabil:
   * Programmer
   * Doccumentation

 - Victor​
   * Programmer
   * Visual Effects support


Any secondary tasks like support or preparing deliverables would be given to the Team Leader would assign to or if someone would volunteer. We will respect time outside the project's scope and another course schedule as well.

## Planned team meeting time(s) and communication plans

The team is to meet on Friday at 10am before the lab, we are to discuss the presentation or quiz, depending on what we have to do that day and finalise any presentation work or discuss our quiz cheat-sheets. This meeting will be held either in the library or cafetaria depending on the consensus of the members at the time.
Any extra meeting must be scheduled atleast 16 hours before the meeting time and quorum of atleast 3 members must be met meetings of this sort can be conducted on discord or in person
All our communication is to be done on discord in the "Mapper" discord group chat.


## Deadlines and Deliverables

Team members will volunteer to do tasks that fall into their skills and expertise. General documentation tasks are to be done by Bruce. Organisation will be shared by the version control head and the team lead. 

If a deadline is unmet or undeliverable for whatever reason there will be a discussion between project organization and the team member involved and an appropriate resolution will be found.

## Conflict resolution scheme

Conflicts will be decided democratically, however if a consensus is not met the team leader will decided on the resolution by themself.
If at any point the team leader is not accepted by all other members, the leader will have to step down and another leader will be democratically elected.

If any conflicts cannot be resolved among the team, we will approach Professor David Wessels to resolve the conflict.
Any issues and concerns will be brought up on the friday meeting.

## AI Policy



## Intellectual property rights



## Discussion of team strengths/weaknesses

